Hello and welcome back to
the Windows forensics path.
In this course, we're
going to be talking
about creating a disk image.
Throughout this course,
we're going to be talking
about sterilizing
our target media.
Making sure our
target media is clean
before we add our
evidence files to it.
We'll talk about
validating our tools,
making sure that the
tools we're going to
use are functioning properly.
We'll talk about write blockers,
how we use them,
and why we use them.
We're going to talk
about creating and
validating a forensic image.
How we create the image,
and how we go about
validating to show
that there were no changes
made to the original evidence.
We're going to talk about the dd,
dcfldd commands which are
used to create a disk image.
In module 1 of this course,
we're going to talk about how we
sterilize our target media.
Why do we use sterile media
for our evidence collection?
Well, we want to
ensure that there is
no pre-existing data
on the target drive.
We want to make sure
that the device we're
copying our evidence to is
completely free of
any other data.
We do this to avoid
cross-contamination,
to make sure that
there's no other data
on there that does not
belong to our
forensic disk image.
When would we want to
use sterile media?
We always want to use
sterile media when we're
collecting evidence.
When you're copying your
forensic image files
to your evidence drives.
Now we have to take a few
things into consideration.
One thing is that
deleting a file,
as we've seen
throughout this path,
does not necessarily
remove data from
the drive so we
can't just delete all
the data on the drive,
we have to actually
forensically wipe the drive.
Also formatting a drive
does not remove all the
data from the drive.
New drives that you
buy at the store,
they usually have
some data on them,
they're going to be formatted
with a file system.
They also usually have
some type of data from
the manufacturer.
Remember, never
trust, always wipe.
If somebody gives
you a drive and asks
you to copy some
data on it for them,
always tell them that
you are going to wipe
the drive before you
copy the evidence
files to the drive,
never trust, always wipe.
When we're doing our
forensic disk wiping,
we want to have
a constant output and
we want something that's
going to be reproducible.
What we do is we write
the disk using all zeros.
This will give us the
same result every time,
and we would verify that
with a checksum 64,
and we're going to do
that in our walk through.
The tools we're going
to need for our
walk-through: we're
going to need Kill disk.
We're going to need HXD,
and we're going to need a small
capacity USB flash drive.
Okay, we're going to do a
sterile media walk-through.
We are going to forensically wipe
our target media and
then verify the wipe.
The drive I'm going to wipe is
this one I've labeled
target media.
I highly recommend that you label
your target drives something
specific so you can
ensure you're wiping the
correct drive because you
don't want to wipe an
evidence drive by mistake.
Once we've opened up
active kill disk,
we're going to locate our
drive, minus right here,
target media drive letter
F, physical disk 10,
yours may be different and
probably will be different,
so make sure you're
on the correct drive.
Once you're there,
you just select it,
and you can simply select
it by clicking on it.
Now it's going to
describe it over here.
On the right-hand side,
it'll tell you the size,
the free-space, the
allocated space.
It'll just give you some
of the drive geometry.
So once you're sure you're wiping
the correct drive with kill disk,
you're going to select it.
You're going to
select to wipe the
entire drive so you want to make
sure the whole thing
is yellow over here.
The whole thing should
be highlighted,
the entire drive,
and you're going
to select ''Erase disk''.
Now make sure you're selecting
''Erase disk'',
not ''Wipe disk''.
Wipe disk does not
white the entire drive,
it just wipes unused
data from partition,
so it just cleans up your desk.
Want to make sure you're
selecting Erase disk.
Once you've done
that, it's going to
show you the drive you're wiping,
you're going to select
all disk space.
We can go with one pass zeros,
we're not going to verify the
erasure with this program,
we're going to use
a separate one.
We're not going to
initialize the disk
after erasure because
we want to confirm
the disk has been
completely erased
before we initialize it,
we're going to hit ''Start''.
It's going to ask you to confirm,
you have to type this in
all caps, erase all data.
Once you've done that, you
can click ''Okay'' and this
is a very small drive so it
should wipe fairly quickly.
Once the drive is wiped,
you will get a message saying
either success or that
there were some errors.
If there are errors,
you need to check.
It does have a log,
and it also have a results pane.
Now that we've done that,
we can go ahead and
get rid of this.
Now what we're going to do is use
HDX to verify that our
driver has been wiped,
and we're going to
use a checksum 64.
If we wipe the disk
with all zeros,
our checksum 64
should be all zeros.
Once we've opened HDX,
make sure you are running
in as Admin or you
won't be able to open disk,
and we're going to
select our drive.
We want to select the physical
disk, minus down here,
removable disk 1, it has the size
but the drive label is gone
because we wiped the drive.
Select your drive and click
''Okay'' and it will open up.
Now what we want to
do is we want to
perform our checksum 64.
So we're going to go
to analysis checksums
and we're going to
select checksum 64,
click ''Okay'' and
because my target drive is small,
it will run quickly.
This will take a lot longer
on a full-size drive.
We can see the results,
my checksum 64 is
all zeros which is what
I expected it to be.
Now I would want to copy that
out or take a screenshot of
my checksum results to
verify that I've wiped
my target drive,
I would want to document
that somewhere.
Now once your target
driver is wiped,
you can go ahead and
format it, and relabel it,
something that you will
recognize when you plug it into
the suspect's computer as
being your target drive.
That is the end of
our walkthrough on
how to sterilize our
target media before use.
In our next section,
we are going to be
talking about validating
our forensic tools in our
next module, end of block.